# Cybersecurity Incident Report: TCP SYN Flood DoS

## Summary
One potential explanation for the website's connection timeout error message is a DoS Attack. The logs show that many TCP SYN requests come from an unfamiliar IP address. The web server appears to be overwhelmed by the volume of incoming traffic and is losing its ability to respond to the abnormally large number of SYN requests. This event is likely a type of DoS Attack called a SYN Flood.

## Explanation
When website visitors try to establish a connection with the web server, a three-way handshake occurs using the TCP protocol.  
1. First step is the source sending a SYN packet to the destination which requests a connection be established or synchronized.  
2. Second step, the server responds with a SYN/ACK packet which means that the server accepts or acknowledges the connection request and sends a synchronization request back to the client.  
3. Third step, the client responds to the server with an ACK packet, which acknowledges the server’s synchronization request. A connection is established.

When a malicious actor sends a large number of SYN packets all at once the server will get bogged down by responding to all the requests, unable to keep up. Legitimate SYN packets would start to be responded to irregularly and eventually not at all. If the flood continues for long enough and the number of SYN requests is larger than the number of available ports, then the server will be overwhelmed and become unable to function. 

### Log evidence and effects on server:
Initially, the attacker’s (203.0.113.0) SYN request is answered normally by the web server (log items 52-54). However, the attacker keeps sending more SYN requests, which is abnormal. At this point, the web server is still able to respond to normal visitor traffic, which is highlighted and labeled as green. An employee visitor with the IP address of 198.51.100.14 successfully completes a SYN/ACK connection handshake with the webserver (log item nos. 55, 56, 58). Then, the employee’s browser requests the sales.html webpage with the GET command and the web server responds (log item no. 60 and 62). 

In the next 20 rows, the log begins to reflect the struggle the web server is having to keep up with the abnormal number of SYN requests coming in at a rapid pace. The attacker is sending several SYN requests every second. The two types of errors in the logs include:

- **An HTTP/1.1 504 Gateway Time-out (text/html) error message:** This message is generated by a gateway server that was waiting for a response from the web server. If the web server takes too long to respond, the gateway server will send a timeout error message to the requesting browser.  
- **An [RST, ACK] packet:** This would be sent to the requesting visitor if the [SYN, ACK] packet is not received by the web server. RST stands for reset, acknowledge. The visitor will receive a timeout error message in their browser and the connection attempt is dropped. The visitor can refresh their browser to attempt to send a new SYN request, however, this would likely result in the same server response until the attack is mitigated.

The web server has become overwhelmed and is unable to process the visitors’ SYN requests. The server is unable to open a new connection to new visitors who receive a connection timeout message.
